README.md, before:

# React/Phoenix TestPlayground

To start your Phoenix server:

  * Run `mix setup` to install and setup dependencies
  * Start up your postgres server in Docker with `docker-compose up -d` (NOTE: Make sure Docker is running in the background)
  * Start Phoenix endpoint with `mix phx.server` or inside IEx with `iex -S mix phx.server`

Now you can visit [`localhost:4000`](http://localhost:4000) from your browser.

Ready to run in production? Please [check our deployment guides](https://hexdocs.pm/phoenix/deployment.html).

## Adding Components

All React components are located in assets/js/components. We are currently using Typescript for all React components.

API routes can be added through controllers in our test_playground_web/controllers directory.

## Further Tasks:

- [X] Generate a actual landing page
- [X] Add TailwindCSS for styling
- [X] Add ShadCN for our component Library
- [ ] Add useful hooks for fetching data using React Query


## Learn more

  * Official website: https://www.phoenixframework.org/
  * Guides: https://hexdocs.pm/phoenix/overview.html
  * Docs: https://hexdocs.pm/phoenix
  * Forum: https://elixirforum.com/c/phoenix-forum
  * Source: https://github.com/phoenixframework/phoenix

Commit message:

add new users table, query, and api routes

README.md, after:

# React/Phoenix TestPlayground

To start your Phoenix server:

  * Run `mix setup` to install and setup dependencies
  * Start up your postgres server in Docker with `docker-compose up -d` (NOTE: Make sure Docker is running in the background)
  * Start Phoenix endpoint with `mix phx.server` or inside IEx with `iex -S mix phx.server`

Now you can visit [`localhost:4000`](http://localhost:4000) from your browser.

Ready to run in production? Please [check our deployment guides](https://hexdocs.pm/phoenix/deployment.html).

## Adding Components

All React components are located in assets/js/components. We are currently using Typescript for all React components.

API routes can be added through controllers in our test_playground_web/controllers directory.

## Adding API Endpoints

With Phoenix, we can easily add API endpoints by creating a new controller. For example, if we wanted to add a new API endpoint for a user, we use the built in generator:

```bash
mix phx.gen.json Accounts User users name:string email:string
```

This is just an example of generating a new controller for a User. We can then add the necessary routes in our router.ex file.

router.ex
```elixir
scope "/api", TestPlaygroundWeb do
  pipe_through :api

  resources "/users", UserController, except: [:new, :edit]
end
```

You can consult the current implementation in this codebase for /api/users.

This route specifically grabs user data from the database and returns it as JSON. We can also submit data using a post request to this endpoint.

Once we run that bash command, we can run `mix ecto.migrate` to create the database table for our User model.

After that, your api route should be ready to go!

## Further Tasks:

- [X] Generate a actual landing page
- [X] Add TailwindCSS for styling
- [X] Add ShadCN for our component Library
- [X] Add useful hooks for fetching data using React Query


## Learn more

  * Official website: https://www.phoenixframework.org/
  * Guides: https://hexdocs.pm/phoenix/overview.html
  * Docs: https://hexdocs.pm/phoenix
  * Forum: https://elixirforum.com/c/phoenix-forum
  * Source: https://github.com/phoenixframework/phoenix
